Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar has called for "unique solutions" to preserve the relationship between the UK and the European Union after Brexit.
On his first official visit to Northern Ireland, he raised the possibility of a bilateral UK-EU customs union.
The taoiseach described Brexit as "the challenge of this generation".
In response, the UK Government said it wanted a special partnership with the EU, including an "ambitious free trade agreement and a customs agreement".
Analysis: Varadkar on how to soften Brexit impact
The Hardest Border: What happens after Brexit?
Leo Varadkar profile: Ireland's youngest PM
Speaking to an invited audience at Queen's University, Belfast, Mr Varadkar said: "Every single aspect of life in Northern Ireland could be affected by Brexit."
Those who favour a hard Brexit have already had 14 months to come up with a plan, he warned.
"If they cannot, and I believe they cannot, we can then talk meaningfully about solutions that might work for all of us," he said.
Mr Varadkar offered two of his own suggestions:
The possibility of an EU-UK customs union if the UK wants to remain in the customs union
A "deep free trade agreement" with the EU if the UK does not want to stay in the single market, with the possibility of its rejoining EFTA (European Free Trade Association)
The taoiseach referred to the lack of input into the Brexit debate from Northern Ireland due to the collapse of the Stormont executive, and urged politicians to do a deal to restore power-sharing.
"We need an answer to the question of who we - and others in Europe - talk to in Belfast," he said. "Who will speak for Northern Ireland and her 1.8 million people?"
'Barrier to trade'
Mr Varadkar said: "It will come as no surprise to anyone here that I do not want there to be an economic border on our island, nor do I want one between Ireland and Britain.

"By economic border, I am not talking about currency or variation in tax rates.
"I am talking about a barrier to free trade and commerce."
In response, the UK Government said no-one wanted a return to a hard border.
"We are clear that the border must be as seamless and frictionless as possible for trade, and that we must preserve the Common Travel Area between the UK and Ireland," said a government statement.
"That is why we are prioritising this issue in our negotiations."
Former Northern Ireland Secretary Owen Paterson said 17.4m people voted to leave the EU and that meant leaving the single market and customs union.
"We know perfectly well that there are heads of member states that did not like the Brexit result," the Conservative MP told BBC Radio 4's World at One.
"We know that the political establishment in Dublin is not happy with the fact that the UK voted to leave the EU.
"But all these stories surrounding the border are massively exaggerated when we have modern technology."
Belfast Pride
The taoiseach is currently meeting members of Northern Ireland's political parties, including representatives from the DUP, Sinn Fein, the SDLP and the Alliance Party.

His meeting with DUP leader Arlene Foster will come days after a row between the party and the taoiseach over the Irish border post-Brexit.
Speaking after meeting the taoiseach, Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams said his party was in "total agreement with the Irish government" on the need for the institutions at Stormont to be back in place.
He said it was up to unionists to accept that "this state has changed utterly".
Brexit: All you need to know
Irish government will not design 'Brexiter border'
Dublin berated for 'megaphone diplomacy'
Mr Varadkar had said he would not design a border for Brexiteers but DUP MP Jeffrey Donaldson said that "megaphone diplomacy from Dublin" would not sort out the border issue.
On Saturday, Mr Varadkar, who is the Republic of Ireland's first openly gay taoiseach, will attend an event as part of Belfast's gay pride festival.
Speaking on Good Morning Ulster on Friday, Sir Jeffrey Donaldson said: "It is better to have dialogue than what we've seen in recent weeks which is the Irish government making statements about a border in the Irish Sea which is totally impractical and a non starter," he said.

"We have to negotiate our way through this."
On Thursday, former taoiseach John Bruton, a former leader of Mr Varadkar's Fine Gael party, said that the DUP is in a position to answer questions over Brexit because of its Westminster pact with the Conservative Party.
In a call with Mr Varadkar in July, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon outlined a plan to keep Scotland in the Single Market and Customs Union.